The Art of Making A Pot

Hank and John Green talking about making one pot in a year vs telling someone to make 1,000? pots 

Used to be against drafting and doing things in stages b/c the work I was doing felt more focused when I could do it in one giant step (would still be in the same headspace). This would lead to blindness however and just contribute to a work that, while incredibly focused, was one-sided or at least short-sided. I would also read back on these works and be a little unsatisfied with how they came out and the reason always felt beyond reach.

I was blind that the 1,000 pots was already my philosophy for engineering, but somehow not for writing. I always tell those who had less design experience to make the thousand pots essentially; I would tell them to make whatever it was they were tasked with, and do it quickly. Why? Because I knew that first design would be crap, and they would have to do it again. So, might as well make that design cycle fast. To be clear, I don't believe I walk on water—I certainly started out the same way. 

Realizing our own fallibility and that we simply aren't gifted is the key to realizing that drafting and revision is necessary. Rejecting this means that someone would never need to change since the moment that they were born, or that the first idea—no matter how considered—is the correct idea.





A Journey Into the Art of Ceramics

Recently, I found myself catching up on episodes of "Dear Hank and John" after a mutual hiatus with ____'s cancer diagnosis. In Episode 417, the two are discussing the philosophical difference between undergraduate and graduate study, and proceed to tell the parable "...if you ask a person to make one perfect pot and give them a year, they will make a worse pot than if you ask a person to make a thousand pots in one year".

Prima facie, I thought this was an interesting notion that I never applied to my own creative work; I have this very common habit of not drafting in the slightest while writing. I sit and I think quite a bit before I put words to the page, and those remain largely unchanged as the work grows. This workflow made me feel more focused and overall less sloppy of a human being. My mind convinced (and still tries to convince) me that revisiting and revising means correcting errors—like my first go at it was so flawed and unacceptable that it had to be changed. Perhaps this is a side effect of essay writing in school as well, where there was just one slog to write a complete paper within a given time, and at the end—without any revisions—it was graded. That was that, the pot was made. However, I still felt as though going through this process in just one session created a certain blindness that made everything on the paper more focused. 

Perhaps it was this same blindness that prevented myself from noticing that in other areas, I would make thousands of pots. Particularly in engineering design, this was my philosophy. When someone starts out not having designed anything in particular in their lives, they are pretty bad at designing particularly anything. I was not immune to this, but gained this insight more in my roles as leadership in engineering clubs. From that position of power, I was able to tell those embarking on their first design recommendations knowing the Thousand-Pot Rule; I would instruct them to make the whatever it was they were tasked with quickly, and show me what they had at the end of it—no more than a week. I did this because I knew it would be crap. Again, I make no claims of walking on water here—I started out making the same mistakes and oversights that these budding engineers were making. But with the oversight of someone who does know what they are doing, who can give immediate feedback on design, the art of making a thousand pots will yield a better pot than making one. 

Realizing our own fallibility and that we simply aren't gifted with perfection is the key to realizing that drafting and revision is necessary. Revising previous work does not mean that it was a failure. Rejecting the thousand-pot theory means that someone would never need to change since the moment that they were born, or that the first idea—no matter how considered—is the correct idea. Thinking about it, we know the one-pot strategy is wrong and yet we can't help but be entranced by it. We are lead to believe by most of our education that one-shotting writing (or anything) is just the way things should be done. Accept it or not, I will at least be drafting my writing now.



